## Rule 11 - Store only non-sensitive data in cache files 

**Google Guideline.** To provide quicker access to non-sensitive app data, store it in the device's cache. For caches larger than 1 MB in size, use `getExternalCacheDir()`; otherwise, use `getCacheDir()`. Each method provides you with the `File` object that contains your app's cached data.

The following code snippet shows how to cache a file that your app recently downloaded:

```java
File cacheDir = getCacheDir();
File fileToCache = new File(myDownloadedFileUri);
String fileToCacheName = fileToCache.getName();
File cacheFile = new File(cacheDir.getPath(), fileToCacheName);
```

**Note**: if you use `getExternalCacheDir()` to place your app's cache within shared storage, the user might eject the media containing this storage while your app is running. You should include logic to gracefully handle the cache miss that this user behavior causes.

**Caution**: there is no security enforced on these files. Therefore, any app that has the `WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE` permission can access the contents of this cache.

**Rule design.** The logic of Rule 11 is shown in Algorithm~\ref{algorithm11}. We check if the app calls the `getExternalCacheDir` method, and if it does, we show a warning that reminds the developer that sensitive data should not be saved in the device external cache. 

```java
Algorithm~\ref{algorithm11}
\SetAlgoLined
\Begin{
    \texttt{s1} $\leftarrow$ ``getExternalCacheDir''\\
	\texttt{methods} $\leftarrow$ getAllCalledMethods()\\
	    \SetAlgoNoLine{\If{\upshape \texttt{s1} \textbf{in} \texttt{methods}}{
	        \emph{Rule 11 is not respected.}
	    }}
}
\caption{Store only non-sensitive data in cache files}
\label{algorithm11}
```

**Attack.** A malicious app can access any data saved in the device external cache, including sensitive data. The directory returned by `getExternalCacheDir()` is an external storage directory accessible by any other app on the same device.