## Rule 13 - Keep services and dependencies up-to-date 

**Google guideline.** Most apps use external libraries and device system information to complete specialized tasks. By keeping your app's dependencies up to date, you make these points of communication more secure.

### Check the Google Play services security provider

**Note**: this section applies only to apps targeting devices that have *Google Play services* installed.

If your app uses Google Play services, make sure that it's updated on the device where your app is installed. This check should be done asynchronously, off of the UI thread. If the device isn't up-to-date, your app should trigger an authorization error.

To determine whether Google Play services is up to date on the device where your app is installed, follow the steps in the guide for "Updating Your Security Provider to Protect Against SSL Exploits" [^1^].

**Rule design.** The logic of Rule 13 is shown in Algorithm~\ref{algorithm13}. We check if the app ensures that the last version of Google Play Services is installed. If this is not the case, we consider it a violation of the rule.

```java
Algorithm~\ref{algorithm13}
\SetAlgoLined
\Begin{
    \texttt{s1} $\leftarrow$ ``ProviderInstaller.installIfNeeded''\\
    \texttt{s2} $\leftarrow$ ``ProviderInstaller.installIfNeededAsync''\\
	\If{\upshape appUsesPlayServices()}{
	    \texttt{respected} $\leftarrow$ False\\
	    \texttt{javaCode} $\leftarrow$ getAllJavaCode()\\
	    \ForEach{\upshape \texttt{word} \textbf{in} \texttt{javaCode}}{
	        \If{\upshape \texttt{word} \textbf{in} [s1, s2]}{
	            \texttt{respected} $\leftarrow$ True
	        }
	    }
	   \SetAlgoNoLine{
		\If{\upshape \textbf{not} \texttt{respected}}{
			    \emph{Rule 13 is not respected.}
			}	
	}
	}
}
\caption{\change{Keep services and dependencies up-to-date}}
\label{algorithm13}
```

**Attack.** Not keeping Google Play services or third-party libraries up-to-date would let an Android application vulnerable to some known vulnerabilities. An attacker might exploit these vulnerabilities, which have already been identified and published.
