## Rule 15 - Do not create Dangerous permissions 

**Google guideline.** Generally, you should strive to define as few permissions as possible while satisfying your security requirements. Creating a new permission is relatively uncommon for most applications because the system-defined permissions cover many situations. Where appropriate, perform access checks using existing permissions.

If you must create a new permission, consider whether you can accomplish your task with a signature protection level. Signature permissions are transparent to the user and allow access only by applications signed by the same developer as the application performing the permission check. If the new permission is still required, it's declared in the app manifest using the `<permission>` element. Apps that wish to use the new permission can reference it by each adding a `<uses-permission>` element in their respective manifest files. You can also add permissions dynamically by using the `addPermission()` method.

If you create a permission with the dangerous protection level, there are a number of complexities that you need to consider:

- The permission must have a string that concisely expresses to a user the security decision they are required to make.
- The permission string must be localized to many different languages.
- Users may choose not to install an application because a permission is confusing or perceived as risky.
- Applications may request the permission when the creator of the permission has not been installed.

Each of these poses a significant nontechnical challenge for you as the developer while also confusing your users, which is why we discourage the use of the dangerous permission level.

**Rule design.** The logic of Rule 15 is shown in Algorithm~\ref{algorithm15}. We collect the list of custom permissions declared in the manifest. If any of these permissions is declared as dangerous, we consider it a violation of the rule.

```java
Algorithm~\ref{algorithm15}
\SetAlgoLined
\Begin{
    \texttt{str} $\leftarrow$ ``dangerous''\\
	\texttt{permissions} $\leftarrow$ getCustomPermissions()\\
	\ForEach{\upshape \texttt{perm} \textbf{in} \texttt{permissions}}{
	    \SetAlgoNoLine{\If{\upshape getPermProtectLevel(\texttt{perm}) = \texttt{str}}{
	        \emph{Rule 15 is not respected.}
	    }}
	}
}
\caption{\change{Create permissions}}
\label{algorithm15}
```

**Attack.** Defining new permissions without the signature protection level might lead to a lack of access control to protected resources. Any malicious app can declare the new permission and exploit it since no control over the signature will be applied.