## Rule 17 - Avoid SQL injections 

**Google Guideline.** 
*When accessing a content provider, use parameterized query methods such as `query()`, `update()`, and `delete()` to avoid potential SQL injection from untrusted sources. Note that using parameterized methods is not sufficient if the `selection` argument is built by concatenating user data prior to submitting it to the method.*

Don't have a false sense of security about the write permission. The write permission allows SQL statements that make it possible for some data to be confirmed using creative `WHERE` clauses and parsing the results. For example, an attacker might probe for the presence of a specific phone number in a call log by modifying a row only if that phone number already exists. If the content provider data has predictable structure, the write permission may be equivalent to providing both reading and writing.

**Rule design.** The logic of Rule 17 is shown in Algorithm~\ref{algorithm17}. If the `query()` method of a Content Provider is overridden, the user input should be properly validated to avoid SQL injections. For this reason, we check if the app contains Content Providers that redefine the `query()` method, and if it does, we show a warning reminding the user that the input should be properly validated. 

```md
\setcounter{algocf}{16}
\begin{algorithm}[]
\SetAlgoLined
\Begin{
	`str` $\leftarrow$ ``query''\\
	`extendCP` $\leftarrow$ getClassesExtendCP()\\
	\ForEach{\upshape `obj` \textbf{in} `extendCP`}{
	    `methods` $\leftarrow$ getObjMethods(`obj`)\\
	    \ForEach{\upshape `method` \textbf{in} `methods`}{
	        \SetAlgoNoLine{\If{\upshape `method` = `str` }{
	    *Rule 17 is not respected.*
	        }}
	    }
	}
}
\caption{\change{Avoid SQL injections: use content providers}}
\label{algorithm17}
\end{algorithm}
```

**Attack.** If an app uses parameterized query methods to access one of its content providers, but the selection argument is built by concatenating user data, an attacker can launch SQL injection attacks. 
