## Rule 18 - Prefer explicit intents 

**Google Guideline.** For activities and broadcast receivers, intents are the preferred mechanism for asynchronous IPC in Android. Depending on your application requirements, you might use `sendBroadcast()`, `sendOrderedBroadcast()`, or an explicit intent to a specific application component. For security purposes, explicit intents are preferred.

**Caution**: if you use an intent to bind to a Service, ensure that your app is secure by using an explicit intent. Using an implicit intent to start a service is a security hazard because you can't be certain what service will respond to the intent, and the user can't see which service starts. Beginning with Android 5.0 (API level 21), the system throws an exception if you call `bindService()` with an implicit intent.

Note that ordered broadcasts can be consumed by a recipient, so they may not be delivered to all applications. If you are sending an intent that must be delivered to a specific receiver, you must use an explicit intent that declares the receiver by name.

Senders of an intent can verify that the recipient has permission by specifying a non-null permission with the method call. Only applications with that permission receive the intent. If data within a broadcast intent may be sensitive, you should consider applying a permission to make sure that malicious applications can't register to receive those messages without appropriate permissions. In those circumstances, you may also consider invoking the receiver directly, rather than raising a broadcast.

**Rule design.** The logic of Rule 18 is shown in Algorithm~\ref{algorithm18}. We check all the intents the app uses to send broadcast messages, start or bind services, or start activities. If any of these intents is implicit, we consider it a violation of the rule.

```java
Algorithm~\ref{algorithm18}
\SetAlgoLined
\Begin{
	\texttt{bindNames} $\leftarrow$ getBindNamesIntents()\\
	\texttt{startService} $\leftarrow$ getStartServiceIntents()\\
	\texttt{sendOrdBcast} $\leftarrow$ getSendOrdBcastIntents()\\
	\texttt{startActivity} $\leftarrow$ getStartActivityIntents()\\
	\texttt{intents} $\leftarrow$ \texttt{bindNames} + \texttt{startService} + \texttt{sendOrdBcast} + \texttt{startActivity}\\
	\ForEach{\upshape \texttt{intent} \textbf{in} \texttt{intents}}{
	    \SetAlgoNoLine{\If{\upshape \textbf{not} isExplicit(\texttt{intent})}{
	        \emph{Rule 18 is not respected.}
	    }}
	}
}
\caption{\change{Prefer explicit intents}}
\label{algorithm18}
```

**Attack.** The attack is the same as for Rule 1.