## Rule 2 - Protect the access to Content Providers

### Apply signature-based permissions

**Google guideline.** *When sharing data between two apps that you control or own, use* *signature-based* permissions. These permissions don't require user confirmation and instead check that the apps accessing the data are signed using the same signing key. Therefore, these permissions offer a more streamlined, secure user experience.*

```xml
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android" package="com.example.myapp">
   <permission 
     android:name="my_custom_permission_name"
     android:protectionLevel="signature" />
```

### Disallow access to your app's content providers

**Google guideline.** *Unless you intend to send data from your app to a different app that you don't own, you should explicitly disallow other developers' apps from accessing the `ContentProvider` objects that your app contains. This setting is particularly important if your app can be installed on devices running Android 4.1.1 (API level 16) or lower, as the `android:exported` attribute of the `<provider>` element is `true` by default on those versions of Android.*

```xml
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android" package="com.example.myapp">
   <application ... >
     <provider
       android:name="android.support.v4.content.FileProvider"
       android:authorities="com.example.myapp.fileprovider"
       ...
       android:exported="false">
       <!-- Place child elements of <provider> here. -->
     </provider>
     ...
   </application> 
</manifest>
```

**Rule design.** The logic of Rule 2 is shown in Algorithm 2. We inspect the app manifest to obtain the list of exported `Content Providers`. If a declared Content Provider is exported but is not protected by a custom permission, we warn the user.

Algorithm 2: Content provider access control

1. Get a list of Content Provider objects.
2. Get the minimum API level.
3. For each Content Provider in the list:
   a. If the Content Provider is exported:
      i. If it doesn't use a custom permission, display a warning that Rule 2 is not respected.
```

**Attack.** If a `ContentProvider` object is *exported* and not permission-protected, any other app on the same device can interact with it by launching SQL injection attacks, reading, or modifying its data.