
\subsection{Rule 20 - Do not export unprotected services} 
\textbf{Google guideline.} \emph{A \texttt{Service} is often used to supply functionality for other applications to use. Each service class must have a corresponding \texttt{<service>} declaration in its manifest file.
\\
By default, services are not exported and cannot be invoked by any other application. However, if you add any intent filters to the service declaration, it is exported by default. It's best if you explicitly declare the \texttt{android:exported} attribute to be sure it behaves as you'd like. Services can also be protected using the \texttt{android:permission} attribute. By doing so, other applications need to declare a corresponding \texttt{<uses-permission>} element in their own manifest to be able to start, stop, or bind to the service. 
\\
A service can protect individual IPC calls into it with permissions, by calling \texttt{checkCallingPermission()} before executing the implementation of that call. You should use the declarative permissions in the manifest, since those are less prone to oversight.
\\
\textbf{Caution}: don't confuse client and server permissions; ensure that the called app has appropriate permissions and verify that you grant the same permissions to the calling app.}

\textbf{Rule design.} The logic of Rule 20 is shown in Algorithm~\ref{algorithm20}. We look at the services that an app exports. If the app contains any implicitly exported service, or if any of the exported services does not check for permissions, we consider it a violation to the rule. 

\setcounter{algocf}{19}
\begin{algorithm}[]
\SetAlgoLined
\Begin{
	\texttt{services} $\leftarrow$ getAllServices()\\
	\ForEach{\upshape \texttt{svc} \textbf{in} \texttt{services}}{
	    \SetAlgoNoLine\If{\upshape hasIntentFilter(\texttt{svc})\\ \textbf{and not} isExported(\texttt{svc})}{
            \emph{Rule 20 is not respected.}
	    }
	    \If{\upshape isExported(\texttt{svc})}{
	        \SetAlgoNoLine{\If{\upshape \textbf{not} hasPerm(\texttt{svc}) \\ \textbf{and not} checksCallingPerm(\texttt{svc})}{
	        \emph{Rule 20 is not respected.}
	        }}
	    }
    }
}
\caption{\change{Use services}}
\label{algorithm20}
\end{algorithm}

\textbf{Attack.} If a \texttt{Service} is \emph{exported}, a malicious app can interact with it by sending malicious \texttt{Intent} messages, that compromise the \texttt{Service} runtime execution.

