
\subsection{Rule 21 - Do not use telephony networking for sensitive data} 
\textbf{Google guideline.} \emph{The SMS protocol was primarily designed for user-to-user communication and is not well-suited for apps that want to transfer data. Due to the limitations of SMS, you should use \textit{Google Cloud Messaging} (GCM) and IP networking for sending data messages from a web server to your app on a user device.
\\
Beware that SMS is neither encrypted nor strongly authenticated on either the network or the device. In particular, any SMS receiver should expect that a malicious user may have sent the SMS to your application. Don't rely on unauthenticated SMS data to perform sensitive commands. Also, you should be aware that SMS may be subject to spoofing and/or interception on the network. On the Android-powered device itself, SMS messages are transmitted as broadcast intents, so they may be read or captured by other applications that have the \texttt{READ\textunderscore SMS} permission.}

\textbf{Rule design.} The logic of Rule 21 is shown in Algorithm~\ref{algorithm21}. Since an app may use SMS for legitimate reasons, we check the manifest of the app and look for SMS-related permissions. If we find any, we remind the user that SMS are inherently insecure and should not be trusted or used to send sensitive information. 
 
 \setcounter{algocf}{20}
\begin{algorithm}[]
\SetAlgoLined
\Begin{
    \texttt{arr} $\leftarrow$ [``SEND\textunderscore SMS'', ``READ\textunderscore SMS'', ``RECEIVE\textunderscore SMS'']\\
	\texttt{permissions} $\leftarrow$ getAllPermissions()\\
	\ForEach{\upshape \texttt{perm} \textbf{in} \texttt{permissions}}{
	    \SetAlgoNoLine{\uIf{\upshape \texttt{perm} \textbf{in} \texttt{arr}}{
	        \emph{Rule 21 is not respected.}
	    }
	  }
	}
}
\caption{Use telephony networking}
\label{algorithm21}
\end{algorithm}

\textbf{Attack.} An attacker could use \textit{sms spoofing} to send a malicious SMS to a legitimate app. Alternatively, an attacker could intercept the SMS messages sent by a legitimate app and read their content, which is not encrypted.

