

\subsection{Rule 23 - Protect exported Broadcast Receivers} 

\textbf{Google Guideline.} \emph{A \texttt{BroadcastReceiver} handles asynchronous requests initiated by an \texttt{Intent}.
\\
By default, receivers are exported and can be invoked by any other application. If your \texttt{BroadcastReceiver} is intended for use by other applications, you may want to apply security permissions to receivers using the \texttt{<receiver>} element within the application manifest. This prevents applications without appropriate permissions from sending an intent to the \texttt{BroadcastReceiver}.}

\textbf{Rule design.} The logic of Rule 23 is shown in Algorithm~\ref{algorithm23}. We inspect all Broadcast Receivers declared by the app. If there is any Broadcast Receiver that is not protected by a permission, we consider it a violation to the rule. 

\setcounter{algocf}{22}
\begin{algorithm}[]
\SetAlgoLined
\Begin{
    \texttt{receivers} $\leftarrow$ getAllBcastReceivers()\\
	\ForEach{\upshape \texttt{receiver} \textbf{in} \texttt{receivers}}{
	    \If{\upshape isExported(\texttt{receiver})}{
     	   \SetAlgoNoLine{\If{\upshape \textbf{not} hasPermission(\texttt{receiver})}{
     	       \emph{Rule 23 is not respected.}
     	   }}
     	}
	}
}
\caption{\change{Use broadcast receivers}}
\label{algorithm23}
\end{algorithm}

\textbf{Attack.} Any malicious app can create an intent which can trigger an exported receiver not protected by a permission. For instance, let's consider an exported and not protected receiver which sends an SMS to a phone number received as an extra parameter of the triggering intent. A malicious application could trigger the receiver by sending intents with a premium rate SMS number. Thus, it would force users to send messages without their consent, stealing money from them. 

