

\subsection{Rule 24 - Do not load code dynamically} 
\textbf{Google guideline.} \emph{We strongly discourage loading code from outside of your application APK. Doing so significantly increases the likelihood of application compromise due to code injection or code tampering. It also adds complexity around version management and application testing. It can also make it impossible to verify the behavior of an application, so it may be prohibited in some environments.
\\
If your application does dynamically load code, the most important thing to keep in mind about dynamically-loaded code is that it runs with the same security permissions as the application APK. The user makes a decision to install your application based on your identity, and the user expects that you provide any code run within the application, including code that is dynamically loaded.
\\
The major security risk associated with dynamically loading code is that the code needs to come from a verifiable source. If the modules are included directly within your APK, they cannot be modified by other applications. This is true whether the code is a native library or a class being loaded using \texttt{DexClassLoader}. Many applications attempt to load code from insecure locations, such as downloaded from the network over unencrypted protocols or from world-writable locations such as external storage. These locations could allow someone on the network to modify the content in transit or another application on a user's device to modify the content on the device.}

\textbf{Rule design.} The logic of Rule 24 is shown in Algorithm~\ref{algorithm24}. We search for any invocation to the \texttt{DexClassLoader} class and consider it a violation to the rule. 

\setcounter{algocf}{23}
\begin{algorithm}[]
\SetAlgoLined
\Begin{
    \texttt{str} $\leftarrow$ ``DexClassLoader''\\
    \texttt{javaCode} $\leftarrow$ getAllJavaCode()\\
	\ForEach{\upshape \texttt{word} \textbf{in} \texttt{javaCode}}{
	    \SetAlgoNoLine{\If{\upshape \texttt{word} = \texttt{str}}{
	        \emph{Rule 24 is not respected.}
	    }}
	}
}
\caption{Dynamically load code}
\label{algorithm24}
\end{algorithm}

\textbf{Attack.} A malicious app can launch a code injection attack through which it modifies the code that a legitimate app will dynamically load. This aim can be achieved if the code is saved in the external storage, is downloaded from a remote location (and, thus, intercepted and modified). 

