
\subsection{Rule 26 - Do hostname verification when using SSLSocket}

\textbf{Google guideline.} 
\emph{\textbf{Caution}: \texttt{SSLSocket} does not perform hostname verification. It is up to your app to do its own hostname verification, preferably by calling \texttt{getDefaultHostnameVerifier()} with the expected hostname. Further beware that \texttt{HostnameVerifier.verify()} doesn't throw an exception on error but instead returns a boolean result that you must explicitly check. 
\\
Here is an example showing how you can do this. It shows that when connecting to \textit{gmail.com} port 443 without SNI support, you'll receive a certificate for \textit{mail.google.com}. This is expected in this case, so check to make sure that the certificate is indeed for \textit{mail.google.com}:}
\begin{lstlisting}[language=Java, caption=Warnings about using SSLSocket directly, numbers=none]
 // Open SSLSocket directly to gmail.com
 SocketFactory sf = SSLSocketFactory.getDefault();
 SSLSocket socket = (SSLSocket) sf.createSocket("gmail.com", 443);
 HostnameVerifier hv = HttpsURLConnection.getDefaultHostnameVerifier();
 SSLSession s = socket.getSession();

 // Verify that the certicate hostname is for
 // mail.google.com. This is due to lack of SNI
 // support in the current SSLSocket.
 if (!hv.verify("mail.google.com", s)) {
   throw new SSLHandshakeException("Expected mail.google.com, found " + s.getPeerPrincipal());
 }

 // At this point SSLSocket performed certificate
 // verification and we have performed hostname
 // verification, so it is safe to proceed.

 // ... use socket ...
 socket.close();

 \end{lstlisting}
 
\textbf{Rule design.} The logic of Rule 26 is shown in Algorithm~\ref{algorithm26}. We look for SSLSocket objects in the code of the app. If we find any SSL socket object that does not perform hostname verification, we consider it a violation to the rule. 

\setcounter{algocf}{25}
\begin{algorithm}[]
\SetAlgoLined
\Begin{
	\texttt{sslSessions} $\leftarrow$ getAllSslSessions()\\
	\texttt{verifiers} $\leftarrow$ getAllHostnameVerifiers()\\
	\ForEach{\upshape \texttt{ver} \textbf{in} \texttt{verifiers}}{
	    \SetAlgoNoLine{\If{\upshape \textbf{not} verifiesWithAny(\texttt{ver}, \texttt{sslSessions})}{
	        \emph{Rule 26 is not respected.}
	    }}
	}
}
\caption{\change{Warnings about using SSLSocket directly}}
\label{algorithm26}
\end{algorithm}

\textbf{Attack.} A malicious app can launch a man-in-the-middle attack against an app that does not use HTTPS or SSL at all. Moreover, if the victim app does not verify the certificate sent by a server, the attacker can even pretend to the remote server and establish a communication with the victim app. 

