
\subsection{Rule 28 - Do not allow cleartext traffic} 
\textbf{Google guideline.} \emph{\textbf{Note}: the guidance in this section applies only to apps that target Android 8.1 (API level 27) or lower. Starting with Android 9 (API level 28), cleartext support is disabled by default.
\\
Applications intending to connect to destinations using only secure connections can opt-out of supporting cleartext (using the unencrypted HTTP protocol instead of HTTPS) to those destinations. This option helps prevent accidental regressions in apps due to changes in URLs provided by external sources such as backend servers. See \texttt{NetworkSecurityPolicy.isC-\\leartextTrafficPermitted()} for more details.
\\
For example, an app may want to ensure that all connections to \texttt{secure.example.com} are always done over HTTPS to protect sensitive traffic from hostile networks. 
\\
\texttt{res/xml/network\textunderscore security\textunderscore config.xml}:}
\begin{lstlisting}[language=XML_android, caption=Opt out of cleartext traffic, numbers=none]
 <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
 <network-security-config>
   <domain-config cleartextTrafficPermitted="false">
     <domain includeSubdomains="true">
      secure.example.com
     </domain>
   </domain-config>
 </network-security-config>

\end{lstlisting}

\textbf{Rule design.} The logic of Rule 28 is shown in Algorithm~\ref{algorithm28}. We look at the manifest of the app. If the manifest enables clear-text traffic, we consider it a violation to the rule.

\setcounter{algocf}{27}
\begin{algorithm}[]
\SetAlgoLined
\Begin{
    \texttt{s1} $\leftarrow$ ``networkSecurityConfig''\\
    \texttt{s2} $\leftarrow$ ``cleartextTrafficPermitted''\\
    \texttt{elements} $\leftarrow$ [``$<$domain-config$>$'', ``$<$base-config$>$'']\\
	\texttt{app} $\leftarrow$ getManifestApplicationElement()\\
	\texttt{appAttrs} $\leftarrow$ getAttrs(\texttt{app});\\
	\ForEach{\upshape \texttt{attr} \textbf{in} \texttt{appAttrs}}{
	    \If{\upshape \texttt{attr} = \texttt{s1}}{
	        \texttt{confElements} $\leftarrow$ getNetSecElements()\\
	        \ForEach{\upshape \texttt{element} \textbf{in} \texttt{elements}}
        	{\If{\upshape \texttt{element} \textbf{in} \texttt{confElements}}{
        	    \texttt{dcAttrs} $\leftarrow$ getAttrs(\texttt{element})\\
        	    \ForEach{\upshape \texttt{dcAttr} \textbf{in} \texttt{dcAttrs}}{
        	    \If{\upshape \texttt{dcAttr.name} = \texttt{s2}}{
            	   \SetAlgoNoLine{\If{\upshape \texttt{dcAttr.value}}{
            	   \emph{Rule 28 is not respected.}
            	 }
            	 }}
            	 }
        	 }}
	    }
	}
}
\caption{\change{Opt out of cleartext traffic}}
\label{algorithm28}
\end{algorithm}

\textbf{Attack.} With the \texttt{cleartextTrafficPermitted} flag set to \texttt{true}, any connection using HTTP is allowed. Thus, an attacker can eavesdrop the cleartext content of any communication established by the victim app.

