#### Rule 3 - Request only the needed permissions

**Google guideline.** *Your app should request only the minimum number of permissions necessary to function properly. When possible, your app should relinquish some of these permissions when they're no longer needed.*

**Rule design.** The logic of Rule 3 is shown below. We collect the list of permissions requested by an app from its manifest, and check if any of the APIs requiring such permissions are invoked by inspecting the app source code (for the mapping between APIs and permissions we rely on *[axplorer](https://github.com/reddr/axplorer)*). If a permission is requested, but not used, we consider it a vulnerability.

```python
def rule_3():
    permissions = getAllPermissions()
    for perm in permissions:
        sdkFuncs = getSdkFuncs(perm)
        uriContProvs = getURIContProvs(perm)
        names = sdkFuncs + uriContProvs
        called = getCalledMethods(names)
        if isEmpty(called):
            return "Rule 3 is not respected."
```

**Attack.** To access protected resources on a mobile device, an app has to declare the associated permissions. Any code running within the same UID has access to the same set of protected resources, defined according to the permissions declared by the app. This can also happen for third-party libraries, which an app might include to have additional features. The higher the number of permissions declared by an app, the higher the risk for the whole mobile device to get attacked by malicious code running within the same UID of that app.

Please note that the algorithm is presented here in a Python-like pseudocode, as opposed to the original LaTeX's algorithmic style. This conversion is done for readability and to follow Markdown's simplicity. The actual implementation might differ based on the programming language and specific APIs you're using.