## Rule 6 - Do not use WebView JavascriptInterface

**Google Guideline.** Because `WebView` consumes web content that can include HTML and Javascript, improper use can introduce common web security issues such as cross-site-scripting (Javascript injection). Android includes a number of mechanisms to reduce the scope of these potential issues by limiting the capability of `WebView` to the minimum functionality required by your application.

If your application doesn't directly use Javascript within a `WebView`, do not call `setJavascriptEnabled()`. Some sample code uses this method, which you might repurpose in production application, so remove that method call if it's not required. By default, `WebView` does not execute Javascript, so cross-site-scripting is not possible.

Use `addJavascriptInterface()` with particular care because it allows Javascript to invoke operations that are normally reserved for Android applications. If you use it, expose `addJavascriptInterface()` only to web pages from which all input is trustworthy. If untrusted input is allowed, untrusted Javascript may be able to invoke Android methods within your app. In general, we recommend exposing `addJavascriptInterface()` only to Javascript that is contained within your application APK.

If your app must use Javascript interface support on devices running Android 6.0 (API level 23) and higher, use HTML message channels instead to communicate between a website and your app, as shown in the following code snippet:

```java
WebView myWebView = (WebView) findViewById(R.id.webview);

// messagePorts[0] and messagePorts[1] represent
// the two ports. They are already tangled to each
// other and have been started.
WebMessagePort[] channel = myWebView.createWebMessageChannel();

// Create handler for channel[0] to receive
// messages.
channel[0].setWebMessageCallback(new WebMessagePort.WebMessageCallback() {
  @Override
  public void onMessage(WebMessagePort port, WebMessage message) {
    Log.d(TAG, "On port " + port + ", received this message: " + message);
  }
});

// Send a message from channel[1] to channel[0].
channel[1].postMessage(new WebMessage("My secure message"));
```

**Rule design.** The logic of Rule 6 is shown in Algorithm 6. We check if the app calls any method to enable or evaluate JavaScript code inside a `WebView` object.

```plaintext
1. s1 <- "setJavascriptEnabled"
2. s2 <- "true"
3. arr <- ["evaluateJavascript", "addJavascriptInterface"]
4. methods <- getAllCalledMethods()
5. For method in methods:
6.   If method in arr:
7.     Rule 6 is not respected.
8.   If method = s1:
9.     If getSecondArg(method) = s2:
10.       Rule 6 is not respected.
```

**Attack.** An insecure handling of Javascript code can lead to XSS (Cross-Site Scripting) attacks.
